add marker for end to end header authentication (#1025)
moq-wg/moq-transport: draft-ietf-moq-transport.md

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed.

## Immutable Extensions Marker

The "Immutable Extension Marker" (Extension Header Type 0xA) serves as a
boundary indicating the start of immutable header extensions.  The

> primary purpose of this marker is so that end to end encryption schemes

Author: probably better to say AEAD schemes (which is what IETF requires) and that would be less confusing.

know that any header extensions after and including this marker can be

> end to end authenticated.

Reviewer: @afrind  Even the immutable header extension is part of AAD scheme ( as it was in the original text)

> end to end authenticated.

Reviewer 2: MOQT does not define any end-to-end authentication or encryption schemes (Secure Object does).  I recommend representing that in the example below by including `xxxx` under the marker as well, and building the requirement that the marker extension be included on my [Secure Objects PR](https://github.com/suhasHere/moq-secure-objects/pull/25).

Header extensions appearing after this marker MUST NOT be modified or

> removed by relays and MUST be cached if the object is

Author: yes, that was implied - glad to add explicit text on that

cached. Conversely, header extensions preceding this marker MAY be
modified or removed by relays, as specified by their individual
specifications. The Immutable Extension Marker is assigned Type 0xA and

> represents a boolean value.  It's absence implies that none of the

Reviewer 2: I think we're waiting on a PR for extension types/ranges etc from @mzanaty

> header extensions should be end to end authenticated.

Author: 100% agree with not using lower case version of should / must. 

how about change "should" to "not meant to be"

> header extensions should be end to end authenticated.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to say that the purpose of the immutability marker is to facilitate end-to-end authentication of _relay visible_ extensions.  But a streaming format can also define end-to-end authentication of _non-relay visible_ metadata within its Object Payload definition.  The text you have implies that the only way to do auth is by making the metadata explicitly relay visible via extensions.

The following figure shows an example Object structure with a
combination of mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted
extensions in the object payload.

~~~
+------+------------+-----------+-------------+------------+--------+
|Header| Mutable    | Marker    | Immutable   | Encrypted  | Object |
|      | Extensions | Extension | Extensions  | Extensions | Data   |

> +------+------------+-----------+-------------+------------+--------+

Author: Agree on need to find a way to not have confusing terminology but Loc has a need for encrypted extension and I want to show that those fit into the Object Payload part as this has been a topic of discussion in WG and it is key design thing from the amount of overhead we end up adding.

> +------+------------+-----------+-------------+------------+--------+

Reviewer 2: LoC can define the contents of its payload however it likes.  MoQT though shouldn't make any assumptions or assertions about payload contents.  Maybe in the example divide Object Payload into "Metadata" and "Object Data" and indicate both Metadata and Object Data can be encrypted?

> +------+------------+-----------+-------------+------------+--------+

Reviewer 2: I made a PR against Secure Objects to explain "private extensions" that are structured metadata from a Secure Objects POV but serialized and encrypted with the payload: https://github.com/suhasHere/moq-secure-objects/pull/25.

Since LoC doesn't have a hard dep on Secure Object (eg: moq-mi sends unencrypted LoC objects), I would recommend updating LoC to explain which extensions defined there are public, immutable and private, both when Secure Objects is used and when it is not.

                   Object Header                    Object Payload

> <---------------------------------------------><-------------------->

Author: So this is good but I think we also need to have e2e encrypted object headers.

> <---------------------------------------------><-------------------->

Author: I'm going to commit this and add a bit more

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed.

## Immutable Extensions Marker

The "Immutable Extension Marker" (Extension Header Type 0xA) serves as a
boundary indicating the start of immutable header extensions.

Relays MUST NOT add, modify, remove or reorder extensions after the Immutable
Extension Marker.  Relays MUST cache all immutable header extensions if the
object is cached. Conversely, header extensions preceding this marker MAY be
modified or removed by relays, as specified by their individual
specifications. The Immutable Extension Marker is assigned Type 0xA and is a
variable length integer that MUST have value 1.  Any other value results in
closing the session with a `PROTOCOL_VIOLATION`.

The following figure shows an example Object structure with a combination of

> mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the Object
```

payload.

~~~
                   Object Header                          Object Payload
<------------------------------------------------------> <---------------->
+--------+------------+--------+------------+-----------+-----------------+

> | Object | Mutable    | Marker | Immutable  | [Payload] | Enc Obj Headers |

Reviewer 2: > Enc Obj Headers

This reads a little strange to me since the yyyyy is meant to show what is encrypted (eg the headers AND the App payload).

But I don't want to faceplant on the example.  I think we're talking about the same thing.

Reviewer 2: > I'm trying to seprate the headers that defined by MoQ from the headers are defined by an applications that sits on top of MoQ and are not part of the MoQ header registry

Maybe after this:

> The following figure shows an example Object structure with a combination of
mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the object
payload.

Add: 

The metadata can be structured (e.g. as key/value pairs) which is encoded and prepended to the Application Payload prior to encryption.

```
| Encoded Metadata |
| App Payload      |
 yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
```

| Fields | Extensions |        | Extensions | [Length ] | App Payload     |
+--------+------------+--------+------------+-----------+-----------------+
                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
                                                          yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy

> x = e2e Authenticated Data

Reviewer 2: For my own understanding -- the [Payload Length] piece is _implicitly_ rather than explicitly included in AEAD, is that right?  It seems like you don't know that length in advance - it's an output from AEAD.

Reviewer 2: Ok, just note 1) the length doesn't always appear on the wire in that spot (datagrams use the enclosing dg length - other fields) and 2) I don't see how that length is included explicitly as _input_ anywhere in the Secure Objects draft.

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed.

> ## Immutable Extensions Marker
> 
> The "Immutable Extension Marker" (Extension Header Type 0xA) serves as a
> boundary indicating the start of immutable header extensions.
> 
> Relays MUST NOT add, modify, remove or reorder extensions after the Immutable
> Extension Marker.  Relays MUST cache all immutable header extensions if the
> object is cached. Conversely, header extensions preceding this marker MAY be
> modified or removed by relays, as specified by their individual
> specifications. The Immutable Extension Marker is assigned Type 0xA and is a
> variable length integer that MUST have value 1.  Any other value results in
> closing the session with a `PROTOCOL_VIOLATION`.
> 
> The following figure shows an example Object structure with a combination of
> mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the Object
> payload.
> 
> ~~~
>                    Object Header                          Object Payload
> <------------------------------------------------------> <---------------->
> +--------+------------+--------+------------+-----------+-----------------+
> | Object | Mutable    | Marker | Immutable  | [Payload] | Enc Obj Headers |
> | Fields | Extensions |        | Extensions | [Length ] | App Payload     |
> +--------+------------+--------+------------+-----------+-----------------+
>                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
>                                                           yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
> x = e2e Authenticated Data
> y = e2e Encrypted Data
> ~~~
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Immutable Extensions

The Immutable Extensions (Extension Header Type 0xB) contains a sequence of
Key-Value-Pairs (see {{moq-key-value-pair}}) which are also Object Extension
Headers of the Object.

~~~
Immutable Extensions {
  Type (0xB),
  Length (i),
  Key-Value-Pair (..) ...
}
~~~

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
Relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed. Relays MUST cache this
extension if the Object is cached.  Relays are permitted to decode and view
these extensions.

A Track is considered malformed (see {{malformed-tracks}}) if any of the
following conditions are detected:

 * An Object contains an Immutable Extensions header that contains another
   Immutable Extensions key
 * A Key-Value-Pair cannot be parsed

The following figure shows an example Object structure with a combination of
mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the Object
payload.

~~~
                   Object Header                      Object Payload
<------------------------------------------------> <------------------->
+--------+-------+------------+-------+-----------+--------------------+
| Object | Ext 1 | Immutable  | Ext N | [Payload] | Private Extensions |
| Fields |       | Extensions |       | [Length]  | App Payload        |
+--------+-------+------------+-------+-----------+--------------------+
                  xxxxxxxxxxxx                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
                                                   yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
x = e2e Authenticated Data
y = e2e Encrypted Data
~~~

```

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed.

## Immutable Extensions

The Immutable Extensions (Extension Header Type 0xB) contains a sequence of
Key-Value-Pairs (see {{moq-key-value-pair}}) which are also Object Extension
Headers of the Object.

~~~
Immutable Extensions {
  Type (0xB),
  Length (i),
  Key-Value-Pair (..) ...
}
~~~

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
Relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed. Relays MUST cache this

> extension if the Object is cached.  Relays are permitted to decode and view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extension if the Object is cached.  Relays MAY decode and view these extensions, however
```

> This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
> Relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed. Relays MUST cache this
> extension if the Object is cached.  Relays are permitted to decode and view
> these extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
Relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed. Relays MUST cache this
extension if the Object is cached and MUST forward this extension as-is, if the enclosing 
Object is forwarded.  Relays MAY  decode and view these extensions, however.
these extensions.
```

A Track is considered malformed (see {{malformed-tracks}}) if any of the
following conditions are detected:

 * An Object contains an Immutable Extensions header that contains another
   Immutable Extensions key
 * A Key-Value-Pair cannot be parsed

The following figure shows an example Object structure with a combination of
mutable and immutable extensions and end to end encrypted metadata in the Object
payload.

~~~
                   Object Header                      Object Payload
<------------------------------------------------> <------------------->
+--------+-------+------------+-------+-----------+--------------------+
| Object | Ext 1 | Immutable  | Ext N | [Payload] | Private Extensions |
| Fields |       | Extensions |       | [Length]  | App Payload        |
+--------+-------+------------+-------+-----------+--------------------+
                  xxxxxxxxxxxx                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
                                                   yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
x = e2e Authenticated Data

> y = e2e Encrypted Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
y = e2e Encrypted Data
EXT1 and EXT N can be modified, updated or deleted by relays 
```

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed.

## Immutable Extensions

The Immutable Extensions (Extension Header Type 0xB) contains a sequence of
Key-Value-Pairs (see {{moq-key-value-pair}}) which are also Object Extension
Headers of the Object.

~~~
Immutable Extensions {
  Type (0xB),
  Length (i),
  Key-Value-Pair (..) ...
}
~~~

This extension can be added by the Original Publisher, but MUST NOT be added by
Relays. This extension MUST NOT be modified or removed. Relays MUST cache this
extension if the Object is cached and MUST forward this extension if the
enclosing Object is forwarded. Relays MAY decode and view these extensions.

> A Track is considered malformed (see {{malformed-tracks}}) if any of the

Reviewer 3: Nit: I think it's cleaner to talk about malformed Objects and then say any Track that contains malformed Objects is malformed?  Also, what about simple corruption?  Maybe that's a case we can only handle with encryption and authentication of Objects?

Reviewer 2: Nothing we can do about corruption without authentication.  For now, the language about "Track is malformed if an object contains..." is consistent with the other sections.
